When would you want to use a remote repository rather than keeping all your work local?

Using a remote repository would useful if you wanted to collaborate with other people on the project that you
were working on. It would also help if yiu wanted to work on your project from multiple computers as all you
would need would be an internet connection and you could then keep working on your project from any machine
you want.

Why might you want to always pull changes manually rather than having Git automatically stay up-to-date with your remote repository?

You might want to pull changes manually if you are working on a project with a group of people. They may
have made changes to the remote repository that you do not neccessarily want to have in your own version
of the code. If you are working from multiple computers then it might be pointless to have git keeping
synchronisation between them all so it might just be easier to manually download any updates that you have
made.

Describe the differences between forks, clones, and branches. When would you use one instead of another?

Forks are used when you want to make change to someone else's project but you dont want to alter the files
on that person's repository. a fork is basically a clone that is made from the other person's github repository
to your github repository. a clone is a copy of a repository on github to your own computer. this automatically
sets the github repository as the remote of the repository on your computer. branches are elements that work
within repositories, they are used for when you want to try to implement an experimental feature in your
project but you do not want to commit to those changes and want to be able to go back to a working version
of the project and work on mandatory features from there.

What is the benefit of having a copy of the last known state of the remote stored locally?

This means that you can track the changes you have made since you last pushed up to the online repository. This
would be useful if you didnt have an internet connection but wanted to see the changes you have made.
